
# The Eddasill Alliance

(Placeholder name adapted from "Seelie/Edda")

![Rough map of the territory of the Eddasill Alliance, stretching across the continent's northern peninsula to the west of a rugged mountain range. The majority of settlements are located along the river networks in the Dark Forest, with a significant number located in the semi-forested tundra to the north.](/home/john/pictures/rpg/eddasill-rough-map.png)

## General Overview
The Eddasill Alliance is composed of many smaller networks of
villages of "elves", which are organized along tribal clan lines
represented by animal totems (ie the Dragon Clan, Bear Clan, Falcon
Clan, Wolf Clan). Each clan lives in its own village made up of
large families which vary in size from a few dozen to a few
thousand members. The enchanted Dark Forest is remote and
inhospitable to all but a few, and the elves of the forests are its
guardians and watchers, with a social structure and religious
ideology that emphasizes their relationship to the natural
environment around them. While each clan follows its own customs
and appoints its own leaders, there is a larger council of
representatives from each clan in the nation's capital city, which
is nested among the giant oak trees along the lake that forms the
heart of the peninsula's sprawling river system.

## History/Background
The Alliance is perhaps the continent's oldest existing political
formation, established only 200-300 years after the War
of the God-Kings. According to legend, the Earth Mother sent
beasts from around the forest and the frozen wilderness with
messages for each of the elf-kings, who are now revered as "Clan
Mothers" and "Clan Fathers." The Earth Mother convened the
elf-kings at the Great Lake in the heart of the Dark Forest, along
with one of each of the world's animals, to form a unit that could
bring peace to the forests and unite the creatures of the earth to
recover from the devastation and chaos that still ravaged the
continent in the aftermath of the war. The Eddasill Alliance is
therefore not only a political alliance between the elf clans but
also an agreement between the Earth Mother, the elves, and the
other creatures of the forest. Our game takes place around 1200
years after the Alliance was established, and these  events are
distant memory shrouded in religious significance and myth.

## Religion/Magic
The elves of the Eddasill territory are highly alert and agile,
which they consider a blessing from the Earth Mother and a
reminder of their duty to live in harmony with the natural world.
They have high capacity for mystical/telekinetic magic compared
with other races, although most elves rarely if ever use magic.
Their religion is strictly monotheistic; they exclusively worship a
goddess called the Earth Mother, to whom they erect prominent
shrines and altars all over their settlements. It is extremely rare
to find an elven dwelling without an elaborate shrine to the Earth
Mother. The elves consider all organic beings, especially beasts,
to be embodied spirits whom are sacred to the Earth Mother. There
is thus a fairly complex system of social and religious customs
that dictates the use of timber, animal products, and even water
travel. At the same time, the elves understand their role in nature
not as pacifists but as intelligent, merciful apex predators,
imbued with spiritual and physical dominance by the Earth Mother.
It is also common for them to revere animals as incarnations of
supernatural spirits, especially the totem animal associated with
their particular clan. Many of these customs and traditions are
passed down orally through generations by shamanistic wise-men and
wise-women who are said to be gifted privileged insights into the
ways of the world by the Earth Mother. Consequently, these
practices tend to vary from clan to clan, although there are strong
similarities in each case. One such similarity is the use of masks
to invoke totem-spirits as well as the ancestor-spirits of the
Clan-Mothers and Clan-Fathers.

## Economy/Culture
Eddasill society is sedentary and based almost exclusively on
hunting and gathering. In particular, hunting is seen as a moral
and economic imperative, provided the correct ritual practices are
observed in the process. Typically, women gather and men hunt in
the smaller villages (although this is more of a cultural
expectation than a hard and fast rule), but gender roles are less
strict in the larger cities. The hunter-warrior ethic of honor,
strength, and nobility permeates the cultural ideology of most
Eddasill elves. Hunting for sport is generally forbidden, but
ritual competitive hunting before important festivals is a major
cultural practice. The elves of Eddasill take their honor and that
of their families and clans extremely seriously, and it is a
regular occurrence for duels to the death to result from
interpersonal disputes. However, duels between members of different
clans are often avoided because of the potential to cause feuds
between clans; such matters are technically supposed to be governed
by the council that sits in the capital.

There are few merchants among the elves, and they do not have a
large or well-developed economy. They live off the bounty of the
natural environment and consider themselves chosen by the Earth
Mother to do so. In the icy north, many elves live only by hunting
and fishing. The elves tend to use bows, spears, and axes -- seldom
will an elf wield a blade, especially in the Eddasill villages and
towns. Their society is relatively decentralized, with almost all
executive governmental authority in the hands of the council. That
said, individual clans enjoy virtually unlimited freedom in
choosing their representatives; a councillor can be removed by
their constituents at any time for any reason. The process for
choosing a councillor varies, but it is typically a simple
"vote-of-confidence" among the people; in other words, a councillor
can remain in power as long as they have the support of their clan,
and can lose that power immediately if the majority of the clan
stops supporting them. Therefore, political power in Eddasill
society is largely reinforced by each clan councillor's ability to
maintain the support of their constituents at home.

[Back to Index](README.rmd)
