# The Kashtogh People
(Placeholder name for the "Desert Argonians")

![Tamriel Rebuilt Concept Art for Argonians](/images/argonian01.jpg)

## General Overview
The Kashtogh are a reptilian species with a semi-nomadic society
located in and around the Opal Desert in the south of the
continent. Their culture is primarily oral, and their historical
origins are mysterious even to the most educated scholars. The
Kashtogh are generally found in the desert and the arid grasslands
that surround it, though it is not uncommon to find Kashtogh
caravans radiating outward from their lands, especially near port
cities along the coast and the borderlands of the Orak River
Valley. As cold-blooded organisms, they cannot travel through
cooler, less temperate zones without some discomfort -- it is not
impossible without preparation, but the climate and remote nature
of the continent's northwest dissuades the vast majority from
visiting. They are venomous and can deal a limited number of
poison damage each day.

## History/Background
Traditionally, Kashtogh society is divided into several tribes of
herdspeople who tend to their flocks of large insects and reptilian
beasts in the continent's most arid regions. In the past few
generations, as a result of recent colonial interactions with the
Ape-People of the west, increasing numbers of Kashtogh traders have
established themselves as prominent merchants, typically exchanging
silk cultivated from the silkworms of the Opal Desert region. The
silk trade has dramatically transformed Kashtogh society; while the
majority of the Kashtogh still practice their traditional
semi-nomadic herding lifestyle, individual lizard-people have
become extraordinarily wealthy and powerful through their
connections to the silk trade, and an influx of commodities and
technology from their neighbors has integrated them into the
external social order much more in the past several decades. While
this can be a source of discontent among the Kashtogh elders,
individual tribes are self-governing and there is no major
political fallout from the changing social landscape of the
reptilian desert-dwellers.

## Religion/Magic
The Kashtogh religion is not an organized institution; rather, it
is a loose aggregation of beliefs and practices structured around
an ascetic and mystical philosophy. Kashtogh shamans speak of
unknowable, omnipresent spiritual forces which act on the world
through conscious beings; these forces, or spirits, are impersonal,
but Kashtogh oral tradition tells of heroic beings in the distant
past who harnessed the spirits and wielded their powers on the
earth. In many cases, these mythical folk-heroes bear an uncanny
resemblance to the gods of the humans -- the Kashtogh tend to refer
to them as the "saints." It is a common practice for members of
Kashtogh tribes to wander in the desert for extended periods of
time to isolate themselves from society and seek spiritual
knowledge from the saints through ascetic meditation. In keeping
with the mystical ascetic religious traditions of the Kashtogh,
they should be unusually gifted in the school of Mysticism (or
equivalent Magic skills).

## Economy/Culture
It is impossible to underestimate the importance of herding and
silk cultivation to the Kashtogh economy and cultural identity. The
lizard-people's way of life revolves around following the sun's
warmth and taking their animals to graze. They produce most of
their food, armor, and shelter from reptile skins, chitin, and
similar materials. Silk is exclusively produced by Kashtogh, as the
continent's silkworms thrive in and around the Opal Desert; certain
wealthy merchants live on large isolated manors which produce large
amounts of silk for export. Early in the spring, the annual
journeys of the Kashtogh caravans begin, and the tribes of the
Kashtogh exploit the trade networks that they have created
throughout the arid southwest, which is too dry and hot for traders
of  the other races (except for the most intrepid individuals.)
Historically, there have been military conflicts between different
Kashtogh tribes. Although these conflicts have been dormant for
decades now, tensions are escalating over access to commodities
from other regions as well as the political and economic
disruptions provoked by the explosion of the silk trade. Therefore,
there may be cases where certain tribes become hostile toward one
another depending on the actions of various factions.

The Kashtogh are known for their culture of hospitality; it is
customary to welcome travelers with open arms, offer gifts and
lodging and to share their culture and religion with visitors. The
only exception to this rule is when one Kashtogh tribe becomes
hostile toward another faction, in which case all members of the
tribe will immediately attempt to kill their enemies without
hesitation. This only happens in extraordinary circumstances,
typically involving the murder of a Kashtogh tribesperson, which
will initiate a vendetta. The decision to declare  hostility
towards a faction is invariably made by the eldest female Kashtogh
in the tribe, who serves as the tribe's political leader; the
eldest male fills the role of the tribe's military commander.
Because the Kashtogh shed their skin and regenerate their vital
organs annually, they live much longer than the other species on
the continent, and the physical ramifications of aging affect them
much less.
