# The Ugun People
(Placeholder name for the Ape-People)

![Image](/images/imga-concept-art.png)

## General Overview
The Ugun are an exceptionally intelligent race of bipedal ape-like
hominids indigenous to the large continent west of our game's
setting. In the previous two centuries, they have formed a massive
and complex republic which has successfully out-competed their
tribal neighbors (various western species of elves, orcs, cat-people and
lizard-people) for territory and resources. Fifty years prior to
the game's setting, the Ugun Republic began establishing trading
outposts and settler-colonies on the frontiers of its borders,
including a large port city on an island west of the continent and
another large city in the central portion of the continent's
western coast.

## History/Background
The first Ugun explorer to reach our game's setting arrived about a
century prior to the revolution that created the Republic. As the
Republic expanded its wealth and administrative capacity, the Ugun
Senate began granting monopolies on certain goods in the lands
where our game takes place. In turn, unprecedented numbers of
westerners have been settling in Ugun colonies, and Ugun merchants
have been pouring resources into their monopolistic ventures; of
course, the Ugun have almost no means of enforcing their imagined
monopolies in our setting, and there is often a complicated series
of political and commercial relationships that dictate the failure
or success of the Ape-People's colonial endeavors.

## Religion/Magic
The Ugun are not a superstitious people -- their culture places a
heavy emphasis on logical inquiry, philosophy, and the
dispassionate pursuit of knowledge. On the western continent, many
of the ancient Ugun practices of ancestor-worship and animism
persist on the Republic's outskirts. On the continent where our
game takes place, only lowly Ugun laborers such as sailors or
indentured servants still hold such beliefs. Instead of temples,
major Ugun cities are typically home to a massive university, with
a giant library and corridors full of philosophers, alchemists, and
spellcasters. There is no scholarly consensus on the exact origins
of magic or its precise relationship to conscious beings.

## Economy/Culture
Intellectual, mercantile, and diplomatic skills are highly valued
in Ugun society. For the purposes of our setting, the Ugun economy
revolves around merchants' attempts to profit off the trade of
exotic commodities like silk and precious minerals from the
mountains such as salt. Ugun elites have a reputation for being
shrewd, cunning, and snobbish among many of the locals, but this is
a stereotype that does not capture the full picture. Many merchants
and philosophers of the Ugun also believe in a "civilizing
mission," and some believe that the Ugun Republic should annex our
setting one day, whether by diplomatic or military means.

[Back to Index](README.md)
